LUCARIO
[EVOLVING]
[all gasping]
We did it.
We really did it!
Check it out.
It's Mega Lucario.
[AGREEMENT]
♪ I wanna be the very best ♪
♪ Like no one ever was ♪
♪ To catch them
is my real test ♪
♪ To train them is my cause ♪
♪ Pokémon ♪
♪ Gotta catch 'em all ♪
♪ It's you and me ♪
♪ Pokémon ♪
♪ I know it's my destiny ♪
♪ Yeah you're my best friend ♪
♪ In a world we must defend ♪
♪ Pokémon ♪
♪ Gotta catch 'em all ♪
♪ All ♪
♪ Pokémon ♪♪
ASH
"The Aura Storm."
Awesome, Lucario.
Your aura's really strong now.
It's the super‐strongest!
Wow, this is it.
The thing we've
been waiting for.
Awesome. Look at you now.
‐ Congratulations, you two.
‐ You look so strong.
I'm totally in awe.
All of that hard work
has paid off in a big way.
Thanks a lot. Well, grandpa?
We hung in there and we did it.
It was all worth it, right?
Well, wasn't it?
[ALARMED]
You know, we feel
your aura too, Lucario.
It sure is impressive.
The future of
the Shalour City Gym is bright.
Yes.
JAMES
There you go.
Lucario Mega Evolved as well.
It's the thing to do these days.
When will you Mega Evolve?
Chill out.
I always save the best for last.
[AFFIRMATIVE]
What do you know?
That breeze feels kind of warm.
[AGREEMENT]
That was
Lucario's aura you felt.
It's being projected
out from its body.
That's amazing. I wonder
how much stronger it's gotten.
'I've been waiting
for someone to ask that.'
This will make you
wonder no more.
SERENA
What is it?
[Clemont chuckling]
The future is now,
thanks to science.
Clemontic Gear, on!
This device will shed some light
on the power of Mega Evolution.
I call it
the Pokémon Power Meter.
Boring, but it says
what it does.
What? Ugh.
Now observe.
'It uses
pre‐existing Pokémon data'
'as the reference value.'
'Point it at your subject,
then power on.'
'A Pokémon's power
is instantly measured.'
It's a must‐have device
if you want to keep
track of your
Pokémon's development.
Wow, science is so amazing.
[AGREEMENT]
I don't really get it,
but it sounds great.
My Mega Lucario might be
stronger than your Mega Lucario.
Hah! Confident, aren't we?
[EXERTION]
[all gasping]
Yeah! You want to try out
your new power, right?
I know you do.
[AGREEMENT]
ASH
Korrina, let's have a battle.
It'll be like a preview
of our Shalour Gym battle.
Putting our skills to the test?
Yup. I'm in.
[EXCITED]
Okay, Pikachu, let's do this.
Ready, Lucario?
[AFFIRMATIVE]
Mega Lucario's first battle!
Watch, grandfather!
Alright.
Let's see how this goes.
Get ready for
a taste of Mega Evolution!
Use Bone Rush!
[BONE RUSH MOVE]
Pikachu, counter it
with Iron Tail!
[AFFIRMATIVE]
[IRON TAIL MOVE]
[IMPACT]
MEGA LUCARIO
[SURPRISED]
‐ Ah.
‐ That's some power.
[AGREEMENT]
Wow, look at
the force of that Bone Rush.
Simply incredible.
It's almost double
compared to the reference data.
That's unbelievable.
Lucario's so powerful.
[ANGRY]
Seems weird for Lucario
to miss an attack like that.
Lucario will be able
to control its power in no time.
Then, we'll be unbeatable.
[UNHAPPY]
Don't worry. You're not
used to your new power yet.
But you will be soon.
Remember, I totally
believe in you.
Pikachu,
let's show them your speed.
It's time to use Quick Attack!
[QUICK ATTACK MOVE]
'Kay. Use Power‐Up Punch!
[POWER‐UP PUNCH MOVE]
[EXERTION]
[SCARED]
[SCARED]/[EXERTION]
What's the matter?
Can't you keep up?
For some reason, my eyes
are having trouble
keeping up with the action.
And Lucario's swamping
Pikachu with speed.
When I Mega Evolve,
I'll swamp both of those losers.
[AFFIRMATIVE]
Let's go!
[ATTACK]
[IMPACT]
[PAINED]
Look at that.
It attacked on its own again.
[SHOCKED]
Awesome. You're getting
the hang of it.
This is great stuff.
Keep up the speed.
Pikachu! Use Electro Ball!
[AFFIRMATIVE]
[ELECTRO BALL MOVE]
[FOCUSED]
Use Power‐Up Punch!
[POWER‐UP PUNCH MOVE]
[PAINED]
[gasping]
[EXERTION]
[SHOCKED]
[PAINED]
Pikachu, no!
Lucario's acting
really strangely.
Could this be part
of the Mega Evolution effect?
Uh, Gurkinn?
Hey, Lucario!
MEGA LUCARIO
[EXERTION]
Oh, no. Pikachu!
[gasping]
[STRUGGLING]
[EXERTION]
No, Lucario! That's no way
to act in a battle!
Oh! Pikachu. Are you alright?
[gasping]
[ROARING]
[grunting]
I knew it.
Stop. Lucario.
Listen to me, please.
'Lucario! Lucario!'
[STRUGGLING]
[ATTACK]
Lucario! Don't do it!
Lucario, stop!
[ANGRY]
[all gasping]
[screaming]
[IMPACT]
Korrina. Lucario. Enough.
[GROWLING]
[STRUGGLING]
[PAINED]
McGinty, please take this.
Right.
Lucario!
What could've happened to you?
Lucario.
'Korrina, let's get
to the Pokémon Center.'
Grandfather? Is this..
[sobbing]
GROUP
Who's that Pokémon?
It's Wigglytuff!
WIGGLYTUFF
[EXERTION]
[HAPPY]
[Ash laughing]
Pikachu!
[EXCITED]
Pikachu's feeling
much better now.
‐ Thanks a lot, Nurse Joy.
‐ I'm so glad you're alright.
PIKACHU [HAPPY]
DEDENNE [HAPPY]
Nurse Joy, how's Lucario?
Wait just a little bit longer.
'Lucario's
completely exhausted.'
But getting better. Don't worry.
Thanks.
Exhaustion is no surprise.
GURKINN
The power of Mega Evolution
can be too much to
handle at first.
By power, do you mean its aura?
Ash and Pikachu, I'm so sorry.
It got to the point where
I didn't know what to do.
I think that surprised
all of us, but that's okay.
I'll tell you something else.
It was probably
a surprise for Lucario too.
[AGREEMENT]
Ash is right.
After evolving
this kind of situation
happens all the time.
'So you shouldn't
think what happened'
'to your Lucario was unusual.'
Look on the bright side!
Lucario was able to Mega Evolve!
I know the two of you
will work all of this out.
[AGREEMENT]
You're right, Ash.
If any Pokémon will be able
to control its new power,
it's Lucario.
Please, take good care
of Lucario. And thanks.
Right.
You can always count on me.
[AGREEMENT]
Mega Evolution's a lot
harder than I thought.
That's exactly
why it's so incredible.
Was your Lucario like that in
the beginning too, grandfather?
In a way. No one gets everything
perfect on their first attempt.
‐ But still..
‐ But still?
What are you saying?
That battle you had
with Ash earlier
was hardly worthy of praise.
But didn't you hear what
Ash and the others said?
We're just getting warmed up.
Mr. McGinty.
Sorry to keep you
waiting, Gurkinn.
So, is it finished?
Aye, and it came out great.
The Lucarionite.
Thanks, Mr. McGinty.
And this is for you too.
Thanks so much.
It's such a great photo.
And now we have a complete set.
Like the one
Grandpa's Lucario has.
Mr. McGinty,
did you make that one too?
I did, and I'm proud
of my handiwork.
CLEMONT
So what do you think
happened to Mega Lucario?
It just Mega Evolved
for the first time
so it probably got carried away.
I wonder.
What do you think, Ash?
Hmm, well, it did feel like
we were up against
a completely different Pokémon
than the last time
we had a battle.
[AGREEMENT]
It was a little bit
scary to watch.
Lucario just went a little wild.
Each Pokémon reacts
to Mega Evolution
in a different way.
Oh, yeah.
The other day, we actually met
Diantha, the Champion.
I believe Diantha's Gardevoir
also Mega Evolves, correct?
Yeah.
We met Mega Gardevoir too.
They do both Mega Evolve,
but Mega Gardevoir
seemed completely
different from Mega Lucario.
You're right. Mega
Gardevoir was so elegant.
Calm and in control.
On the other
hand, Mega Lucario
became super strong
but totally
ignored Korrina's commands.
I wonder. What was
happening with Lucario?
KORRINA
I need to find out.
When Lucario
refused to listen to me
it felt so strange.
It could mean
the power of Mega Evolution
is simply too strong
for your Lucario to handle.
Too strong?
It's believed the
strength of Lucario's aura
is heightened to its limit
when it Mega Evolves.
During a battle,
every nerve in its body
is concentrating
on battling
so it's unable to think
about anything else.
That's why its
heightened aura
awakens its
battling instincts so strongly.
You're right.
That instinct totally took over.
It's not unheard of
for a Mega Evolved Pokémon
to lose control during a battle.
Okay, so you're saying Korrina
needs to figure out
how to to control that.
[AGREEMENT]
That's right.
And it's a power
she must make her own
as the Shalour Gym Leader.
[HAPPY]
Lucario!
Thank goodness.
It's feeling much better now.
Thanks so much, Nurse Joy.
How do you feel? Okay?
You do recognize me, right?
[AFFIRMATIVE]
[EXERTION]
Okay, okay.
Glad you're better, Lucario.
PIKACHU
[AGREEMENT]
CLEMONT
You look a lot better.
That's right.
I wanted to give you
the Lucarionite.
[AGREEMENT]
It looks great on you.
So chic! Trainer and Pokémon
wearing the same style?
I'm jealous.
[AGREEMENT]
‐ So, you all like it?
‐ Yup.
It's like a good luck charm.
[AGREEMENT]
Lucario, look, we both learned
that mastering Mega Evolution
is a whole lot of hard work.
But you know
if anyone can do it, we can.
[AGREEMENT]
Korrina, please come with me.
I think we should have a battle.
Wow, have a battle with us?
It's been so long.
Now, let's master Mega Evolution
this time for sure.
[AGREEMENT]
Hmm.
It appears you don't understand
what Mega Evolution
is really about.
'Come outside.'
Of course we know
what Mega Evolution's about.
Let's show him
how strong we've become.
This will be
a Mega Evolution battle.
All set. Time to Mega Evolve!
LUCARIO
[EVOLVING]
And next, it's our turn.
Time to Mega Evolve!
LUCARIO
[EVOLVING]
Awesome. Two Mega Lucario.
[AMAZED]
Their auras are flying
all over the place.
KORRINA
'Watch closely, Ash.'
Huh?
We've never ever
beaten my grandfather
and his Lucario before.
We never really stood a chance.
Yeah, I hear you.
But this time you will for sure.
And control Lucario's
Mega Evolution too.
Count on it! Power‐Up Punch!
Block with your aura.
[PAINED]
It blocked using
just its aura.
Gurkinn's Mega Lucario has
complete control over its aura.
The fact is,
it's only when a Pokémon
and Trainer are able
to truly understand one another
that an aura heightened
to its complete
and utter limit
can be controlled like that.
Come on!
Stop treating me
like a little kid
and battle me seriously.
That's what we're doing.
This is how Aura Pokémon
should be battling.
Now, Bone Rush!
[BONE RUSH MOVE]
Alright, use Bone Rush too!
[IMPACT]
[EXERTION]
Great move, Korrina.
[AGREEMENT]
You're doing great, Lucario.
Keep it up.
Awesome.
It's best you don't
underestimate us.
Alright. Now, Aura Sphere.
[AURA SPHERE MOVE]
Use Bone Rush! Crush it!
[BONE RUSH MOVE]
It's got more power.
Gurkinn's Lucario's aura
is just stronger.
You can do it, Lucario!
You're the strongest, right?
'I know you can beat
their Aura Sphere!'
‐ There's that look again!
‐ Oh!
Ah! Lucario! But why?
So the real battle begins.
[CONFUSED]/[GROWLING]
KORRINA
'Lucario! Can you hear me?'
[ROARING]
Lucario, Swords Dance.
Lucario, what are you doing?
It ignored her command again!
[EXERTION]
Stop it, now.
[ATTACK]
[IMPACT]
Dodge it with your aura.
Lucario, listen to me.
Bone Rush!
Aura Sphere.
[AURA SPHERE MOVE]
[PAINED]
Our battle's over.
Lucario. Lucario, wake up.
GURKINN
Well done.
We've got a lot of work ahead.
Hmm.
Lucario, wake up, please.
I'm so glad you're awake.
Huh?
It's hard. But why?
It Mega Evolved again, but we
still couldn't control it.
I'm afraid
the only ones to blame
for the lack of change
are you two.
Now, Lucario.
The reason you're consumed
by your aura is because
of your overconfidence
with regard to your power.
Attacking excessively
without Korrina's command
is nothing short of arrogant.
And, Korrina, because you
allow Lucario to do just that
it shows you
don't truly understand it.
The way things are now,
becoming stronger is impossible.
You two have spent
too much time together.
And because you believe
you truly understand each other
you have
unfortunately neglected
the training
that would make you stronger.
It's this sort
of immature behavior
'that's unbecoming
of the Shalour Gym Leader.'
I don't get this.
I don't get this at all.
We've battled so much.
Why, you fool!
[gasping]
I order you to go on
another training journey.
'There's a trainer who has
guided me since I was young'
'who lives on Pomace Mountain.'
'This Trainer's partner
is also a Mega Evolved Pokémon.'
'I'm certain they will teach you
what you need to be able to see'
'beyond the surface
of Mega Evolution.'
Okay.
‐ 'Korrina?'
‐ Huh?
We want to go with you.
We can train together.
[AGREEMENT]
It's here.
Pomace Mountain. Found it!
Thanks a lot, Serena.
Look on the bright side.
This is all so you guys
can become stronger.
[AGREEMENT]
I know you're right, Ash.
I'm sure training
will be a lot more fun
if you have company.
‐ I want to go too.
‐ So do I. We'll go together.
I want to beat you guys
when you're both super strong.
And now that Lucario can
Mega Evolve, you'll do it.
And once you're there,
I'll challenge you.
But once we master
Mega Evolution
you won't be able to win
a Shalour Gym badge, you know.
There's no way we can know that
until we have
a Gym battle, right?
PIKACHU
[AGREEMENT]
[thinking] Korrina,
Lucario, how will you
come to terms
with Mega Evolution
and learn to use
the power of the aura?
This is a trial
that must be overcome.
Now go! To
Pomace Mountain!
NARRATOR
And so, Korrina and Lucario
set off on a new journey,
complete with a new task.
Just what will they
and our heroes
gain from their
adventures?
More mysteries
of Mega Evolution lie ahead
as the journey continues.
[theme music]